README.md, before:

# DATAVIZ – MAJOR STUDIO 01  
This repository is created for Major Studio 01 during the Fall 2024 semester of the MSc. Data Visualization program at Parsons, The New School, New York City. It showcases the development of code and exercises throughout the work in the studio.

# Concept sketches for the three different data-sets from [Smithsonian Open Access ](https://github.com/Smithsonian/OpenAccess?tab=readme-ov-file#smithsonian-open-access-metadata-repository-github) 

## Concept sketch #01
### Portrait of Politics
![Sketch01](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bf2b07bb-5dac-4c39-bba8-215aabbc3bb0)

Data from the National Portrait Gallery

Questions:
Who is the most portrayed political figure in the collection?
Who are the artists involved in making the portraits?
What is the gender representation? What is the distribution of females and males?
How has the medium of portraying political figures changed over time?
Content: {
           {
           name {
             artist: name
             person sitting: name}
           date {
             date: 1994}
           object {
             type: painting }
           topic {
             type: male/female}}
Bubble Chart, Scatter plot, Pie Chart

 


## Concept sketch #02
### Cultural Origins
![Sketch02](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/108e19bf-96ff-408e-b306-9f3cac6fa978)


This visualization analyzes the collection from the Anthropology Department by categorizing objects into tools, textiles, and other types to explore the diversity of the collection. It also aims to address two key questions: where do the collection's objects originate, and from which cultures do they come?

The visualization tool combines a map to pinpoint the geographical origins of the objects and the location of the corresponding cultures. Additionally, a bubble chart is used to represent the quantity of objects within each category (e.g., tools), and pictograms are employed to break down each category, showing the specific objects it contains.


## Concept sketch #03
### Entomological Diversity

![Sketch03](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3f9be10-821b-4e5c-a645-cf0600fdb076)

Data from Entomology Dept. 
The visualization aims to analyze and visualize the diversity of the collection. It categorizes insects based on taxonomy and their functional roles in ecosystems. Each category has a dedicated view to address two key questions: how are the insects in the collection categorized in terms of their ecological roles, and what are the most represented species or orders of insects in the collection? The visualization tools used include a combination of an interactive map and a circular chart.

Commit message:

adds Figma Mockup link –> in readme.me

README.md, after:

# DATAVIZ – MAJOR STUDIO 01  
This repository is created for Major Studio 01 during the Fall 2024 semester of the MSc. Data Visualization program at Parsons, The New School, New York City. It showcases the development of code and exercises throughout the work in the studio.

# Concept sketches for the three different data-sets from [Smithsonian Open Access ](https://github.com/Smithsonian/OpenAccess?tab=readme-ov-file#smithsonian-open-access-metadata-repository-github) 

## Mock-Up
### Entomological Diversity
(https://www.figma.com/proto/5bKPWekFWG8up127Tgo2M2/240915_Mockup?node-id=37-373&node-type=canvas&t=nqaVa2h3lg77xU8C-1&scaling=scale-down&content-scaling=fixed&page-id=37%3A372&starting-point-node-id=37%3A373)

Mockup requires a password: ****** 
Please finde it in Canvas


## Concept sketch #01
### Portrait of Politics
![Sketch01](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bf2b07bb-5dac-4c39-bba8-215aabbc3bb0)

Data from the National Portrait Gallery

Questions:
Who is the most portrayed political figure in the collection?
Who are the artists involved in making the portraits?
What is the gender representation? What is the distribution of females and males?
How has the medium of portraying political figures changed over time?
Content: {
           {
           name {
             artist: name
             person sitting: name}
           date {
             date: 1994}
           object {
             type: painting }
           topic {
             type: male/female}}
Bubble Chart, Scatter plot, Pie Chart

 


## Concept sketch #02
### Cultural Origins
![Sketch02](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/108e19bf-96ff-408e-b306-9f3cac6fa978)


This visualization analyzes the collection from the Anthropology Department by categorizing objects into tools, textiles, and other types to explore the diversity of the collection. It also aims to address two key questions: where do the collection's objects originate, and from which cultures do they come?

The visualization tool combines a map to pinpoint the geographical origins of the objects and the location of the corresponding cultures. Additionally, a bubble chart is used to represent the quantity of objects within each category (e.g., tools), and pictograms are employed to break down each category, showing the specific objects it contains.


## Concept sketch #03
### Entomological Diversity

![Sketch03](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3f9be10-821b-4e5c-a645-cf0600fdb076)

Data from Entomology Dept. 
The visualization aims to analyze and visualize the diversity of the collection. It categorizes insects based on taxonomy and their functional roles in ecosystems. Each category has a dedicated view to address two key questions: how are the insects in the collection categorized in terms of their ecological roles, and what are the most represented species or orders of insects in the collection? The visualization tools used include a combination of an interactive map and a circular chart.
